Add deprecation notices to the Upgrade guide (#6426)
plone/volto: docs/source/upgrade-guide/index.md

You might catch some violations in your project or add-on code after running ESlint.
Adding the missing `key` property whenever the violation is reported will fix it.

### Deprecation notices for Volto 18

#### `@plone/generator-volto`

```{deprecated} Volto 18.0.0
```

The Node.js-based Volto project boilerplate generator is deprecated from Volto 18 onwards.
Although you can still migrate your project to Volto 18 using this boilerplate, is recommended that you migrate to use [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone).
After the release of Volto 18, it will be marked as deprecated, archived, and it won't receive any further updates.

##### Alternative

Migrate your project to use a [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone) boilerplate.

#### Volto project configurations

```{deprecated} Volto 18.0.0
```

> It's been a while that you can configure Volto using an add-on.

Author: I have no clue... :( We can invent it... the full support, around 2020 I guess...

> It's been a while that you can configure Volto using an add-on.

Author: David improved it already.

```{deprecated} Volto 18.0.0
```

Volto had this barrel imports (centralized files where other imports are re-exported in order to improve the developer user experience since the developer only has to remember to import from the re-exported place, not the full path).

It became a bad practice, since bundlers rely on the import pathway in order to determine if bundle code together or not.
Since the barrel imports direct import all the code, a lot of imports ended up in the same main chunk of code.
Modern bundlers like Vite also use that technique, so it heavily relies on this.
We have to remove the barrel imports in order to increase the natural number of chunks that Volto divides on (specially on routes), and the code splitting is done the right and natural way.

This will force us to rewrite all the imports everywhere (core, projects and add-ons) once we implement it.

##### Alternative

We can start implementing only direct imports in our code right away, preparing for the upcoming change, so we don't have to in the future.

```diff
-import { BodyClass } from '@plone/volto/helpers';
+import BodyClass from '@plone/volto/helpers/BodyClass/BodyClass';
```

> Once this is implemented, a codemod will be provided to fulfill a smooth migration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once this is implemented, a code modification will be provided for a smooth migration.
```

After the release of Volto 18, it will be marked as deprecated, archived, and it won't receive any further updates.
Although you can still migrate your project to Volto 18 using this boilerplate, you should migrate to using [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone).

##### Alternative

Migrate your project to use a [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone) boilerplate.

#### Volto project configurations

```{deprecated} Volto 18.0.0
```

Configuring Volto using {file}`src/config.js` at the project level is deprecated in Volto 18, and will be removed in Volto 19.

```{seealso}
See https://github.com/plone/volto/issues/6396 for details.
```

##### Alternative

You should configure your projects in a policy add-on.
You can move your project to use [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone) which provides the necessary boilerplate for it.

#### Semantic UI

```{deprecated} Volto 18.0.0
```

The Semantic UI library is not maintained anymore, and will be removed in Plone 7.
You should no longer use Semantic UI in add-ons and projects.

```{seealso}
Related PLIPs:

- https://github.com/plone/volto/issues/6321
- https://github.com/plone/volto/issues/6323

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

It's a Webpack-only library, and it does not have Vite plugin support.
Since React 18, this library is no longer necessary, as it has the initial implementation of the "concurrent mode".
React 19 will further improve it and add more features around it.

##### Alternatives

Use plain React 18 lazy load features and its idioms for lazy load components.

```jsx
const myLazyComponent = lazy(()=> import('@plone/volto/components/theme/MyLazyComponent/MyLazyComponent'))

const RandomComponent = (props) => (
    <React.Suspense>
        <MyLazyComponent />
    </React.Suspense>
)
```

There's no support for pre-loading or lazy loading entire libraries as in `@loadable/component`.
With the removal of barrel imports files, as described in the next deprecation notice, it is now unnecessary.

#### Removal of barrel import files

```{deprecated} Volto 18.0.0
```

Volto previously used barrel imports, which are centralized files where other imports are re-exported, to improve the developer user experience.
With barrel imports, a developer only needs to remember to import from the re-exported place, not the full path.

> It became a bad practice, because bundlers rely upon the import path to determine whether to bundle code together or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the barrel imports directly import all the code, a lot of imports ended up in the same main chunk of code.
It became a bad practice, as modern bundlers, such as Vite, rely upon the import path to determine whether to bundle code together or not, reducing the bundle size.
```

> Since the barrel imports direct import all the code, a lot of imports ended up in the same main chunk of code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Modern bundlers like Vite also use that technique, so it heavily relies on this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

The barrel imports must be removed to increase the natural number of chunks that Volto divides on—especially on routes—resulting in code splitting done the right and natural way.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The barrel imports must be removed to increase the natural number of chunks that Volto divides on—especially on routes—resulting in code splitting done the right and natural way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The barrel imports must be removed to increase the natural number of chunks that Volto divides on—especially on routes—resulting in code splitting done the right and natural way.
```

This forces us to rewrite all the imports everywhere—including core, projects, and add-ons—once we implement it.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

You might catch some violations in your project or add-on code after running ESlint.
Adding the missing `key` property whenever the violation is reported will fix it.

### Deprecation notices for Volto 18

#### `@plone/generator-volto`

```{deprecated} Volto 18.0.0
```

The Node.js-based Volto project boilerplate generator is deprecated from Volto 18 onwards.

> Although you can still migrate your project to Volto 18 using this boilerplate, you should migrate to using [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone).
> After the release of Volto 18, it will be marked as deprecated, archived, and it won't receive any further updates.

Reviewer 2: Reorder to make it clearer that the "after the release" sentence isn't talking about Cookieplone.

```suggestion
After the release of Volto 18, it will be marked as deprecated, archived, and it won't receive any further updates.
Although you can still migrate your project to Volto 18 using this boilerplate, you should migrate to using [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone).
```

##### Alternative

Migrate your project to use a [Cookieplone](https://github.com/plone/cookieplone) boilerplate.

#### Volto project configurations

```{deprecated} Volto 18.0.0
```

> It's been a while that you can configure Volto using an add-on.
> The "project" way, where you configure Volto using {file}`src/config.js` in your project, is deprecated in Volto 18, and will be removed in Volto 19.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Configuring Volto using {file}`src/config.js` at the project level is deprecated in Volto 18, and will be removed in Volto 19.
```
